Welcome back everyone to.
Part three of tech generation of Python and cares in step three.
We're going to focus on creating batches that is to say we understand the way the tech sequences are
organized and shifted one character forward and then we'll actually use tensor flows built in data sets.
Class Object to generate those batches and shuffle those batches for us.
Let's head back to the notebook where we left off last time to check this all out.
All right here I am at the notebook we left off last time.
Previously we discovered how we could take our rostering data and encode it so that every character
has a unique integer assigned to it.
Next we need to do is actually create or training sequences.
Those are the batches we're going to be training our model on.
Now the next thing before we actually create those sequences though is to figure out how long should
these sequences be.
Recall that our model is a character based model.
So for example if I were to grab a portion of the text grab the first 500 characters and print that
out.
Here we can see the general structure in this case of a sonnet.
So let's go ahead and just grab a line from this so I'll grab the first line and let's say line is equal
to and we'll just put in that single line.
So how long is one line of text.
So it looks like one line of text is 41 characters.
But we want to do is make sure our training sequences are long enough that they'll actually be able
to pick up the general structure of the text and likely Shakespeare has a very specific structure due
to its iambic pentameter.
As you can see here things tend to rhyme.
Every other line.
Not exactly but more or less we have increase with the C's die and memory fuel and cruel eyes and lies
et cetera.
So we should probably have at least three lines in order to try to understand that structure.
So that should be around if we check out the copy paste here we can see lines and let's go ahead and
put this in.
Using triple quotes here because it's multi line let's check the length of those lines and it looks
like about one hundred thirty three.
So if on average each line is around 40 characters and three lines is one one hundred and thirty three
characters probably let's go ahead and choose our sequence length of one hundred and twenty characters.
Kind of a smaller set of three lines.
Keep in mind your actual character sequences will depend on the actual structure of your text data and
what trying what you're trying to achieve structure wise with your character.
Current neural network but in our case in twenty characters seems to have enough information to actually
capture everything but not so much that it's an it take a really long training time so we're gonna choose
sequence length of 120 and then we're going to do here is calculate the total number of sequences in
our text.
So for this we can say the total number of sequences instead of text is merely the length of that text
the full text and then we're going to use two forward slashes here so that it's classic division instead
of truth vision essentially rounding this off and then we'll say sequence length plus one because of
zero indexing here.
Go ahead run that and we should see that we have about forty five thousand sequences total so let's
go ahead and create the training sequences and we can do this with these special data set object from
tensor flow.
So I will say character data set is equal to and we say TAF data dot data set and then we're going to
be constructing this from tensor slices on our encoded text not on the original text
OK so go ahead and run that may take a little bit of time.
The pin in your computer but if you took out the type of characters that essentially this is a special
tensor slice data.
And with that if we check out character data set and then do that tab you'll see that it has a bunch
of method calls off of it.
So one of them that's the most convenient we're going to be using is this batch call.
So the batch method converts these individual character calls into sequences we can feed in as a batch
so let me show you what that actually looks like.
We'll say for item in character data set and then we're call this take method and this take method basically
just creates a data set with at most count elements from this dataset.
So we'll say 500 and then we'll go ahead and print those items but those items ought to be prints and
it'll be converted to num pi.
So if we just print out these items you'll notice essentially the encoded text which means I could say
index to character and pass that in to that array and then you'll notice as you scroll down it's essentially
character by character being printed out from various creatures we desire et cetera.
So that's what's actually inside of that large character dataset.
So what we can do now is create sequences from it so I can say sequences is equal to that character
dataset and then I'm going to call this batch method and dispatch method combines consecutive elements
of this dataset into batches that we can then feed into our neural network later on.
So we're going to define the first item as sequence length plus one we're using plus one because of
zero indexing here and then we also say drop remainder is equal to true.
So as you probably suspected.
Recall that our total number sequences if we actually divide it out with classic division is forty five
thousand and five.
But if we were to do this with true division and run that you'll notice that it's actually not a perfect
fit which means the actual number of characters in our entire dataset is not perfectly divisible by
our sequence length of 120 which makes sense.
You would expect it to be perfectly divisible by 120.
So that means you're gonna have some remainder characters at the very end.
So we do here is we say drop remainder is equal to true.
So it just discards those last couple of characters and in our case it's not a big deal to discard that
because it's going to be either 1 19 or one hundred and nineteen characters or less out of a character
set of more than five million characters.
So dropping those last hundred nineteen or less is not a big deal.
So we'll go ahead and run this and now we have our sequences.
So now that we have our sequences we'll perform the following steps for each one of those to create
our target text sequence.
We're first going to grab the input text sequence assigned the target text sequence as the input text
sequence shifted my one step forward and then group them together as a tuple to do this easily.
I'll just create a function you'll say the F create sequence targets and so given a particular sequence
essentially a sequence of 120 characters we're going to say the input text is equal to sequence starting
from the beginning all the way up to Maine not including that last character.
So it's colon negative 1 which means our target text is an equal to the sequence shifted 1 4.
So starting at index 1 instead of index 0 go all the way to the end and then we'll return input text
target text.
So what this is doing is you can imagine that this is going to grab something like Hello my name without
the E and this one is going to be e oh my name.
So this is starting from all the way to being go all the way up to but not including that last character.
Keep in mind it would be 120 characters and then this one starting an index one go all the way to the
end.
So essentially we get the same sequence shifted over by one time step or one character step into the
future.
So you run that and then we're going to map that to all the sequences so that my final dataset is sequences
that map and we'll say create sequence targets go ahead and run that and then we're going to do just
showing an example of what this actually looks like.
So I'm going to say for input text comma target text in my dataset.
Well it's going to take one example of this.
We'll do the following we'll say go ahead and print input text as a name pyrite
and then we'll prints the index two character of our input text name pie and let's go ahead and join
that since that's just going to be a list.
Or say join that.
Make sure you check your braces and parentheses there we'll print a new line for some clarity and then
we'll print Target text
in terms of nut pie
and then we'll say print and then we'll go ahead and join that as well say join clips index the character
in this case the target text number pi so essentially showing you what the first batch will look like.
So the very first batch essentially looks like this.
No it goes 0 1 1 1 etc. all the way to seventy six seventy five.
That's the first sequence.
This what it actually looks like if you were to see it as characters.
Keep in mind our network is going to see the numbers not these actual characters.
And then the next batch notice it starts at 1.
So here we see 0 1.
This one's going to 1 and then it goes seventy six seventy five.
But this one extends to seventy six seventy five and one we're 1 essentially just whitespace.
So you can see here the string as well.
So even those strings when they're printed out look actually similar.
This one has extra whitespace and you can kind of tell by the fact that I'm highlighting it the highlighting
ends at T.
But here it ends at the whitespace.
You can confirm that by saying we have that extra one.
So this is the target.
This is the input sequence and then this is Second once the target sequence.
OK so let's go ahead and I'll show you how to actually generate those training batches.
So now we have the actual sequences.
We can create those training batches this choose a batch size.
Go ahead and choose 128 and then we want to make sure we shuffle these.
So the model doesn't learn on a particular ordering of the text.
It should be able to take any random snippet of text and start generating the next sequence from it.
So to do that we'll say data set is equal to data set shuffle.
And just to make sure everything's not shuffled in memory we're going to only take batches at a time
to shuffle.
So we'll say buffer size is equal to ten thousand.
So essentially what this means is just take in 10000 of those elements and then shuffle them around.
Because if you don't actually specify a buffer size when you call shuffle ill attempt to read in the
entire data set in memory and shuffle that and if you're dealing for a large dataset that could cause
error.
So we just say dataset that shuffle buffer size and that will help out if any memory potential issues
and then the batch we pass in the batch size and then again we say drop remainder equal to true OK go
ahead and run that.
And now we should have our dataset ready to go.
Notice the shapes it's 128 by 120.
So one hundred and twenty eight different types of sequences where each sequence is one hundred and
twenty long and then we have this tuple where we have the input sequence and then the target sequence.
OK.
This probably one of most complicated steps out of this entire process.
But if you understand the main idea that your batches essentially look like this where you have one
sequence of encoded numbers that relates to an original string and then the target is that sequence
shifted over by one number again relating to some string then you essentially understand the actual
process the technical parts of creating this with this data set object.
That's probably the most complicated part but if you understand the fundamental idea of this encoded
sequence being shifted at one time step forward then you pretty much got this section down.
Note here that this 120 refers the batch size.
So we're gonna be feeding in one hundred and twenty eight of these sequences at a time where each sequence
is 120 characters long.
So we have the input sequences and then the target sequences coming up next we'll focus on creating
the actual model.
Thanks and I'll see you there.